Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome software
engineer Sarah Wilkin.
Good morning, everyone.
So I can probably guess
why you're all here,
which is I got this quote
from the Cocoa mailing list.
And someone asked-- oh, well, that's me.
Am I missing something,
or is there actually no
XML object for Cocoa?
Well, I mean, there isn't until today.
So what you've had so far
is there's the SACS parser,
and with that,
you basically get a bunch of
callbacks as you go through your XML.
And that's useful to an extent where you
want to build your own custom objects,
but often you just want
that final thing at the end.
And then there's CFXML tree,
which has a lot of limitations.
In particular, it doesn't have any sort
of namespace handling.
So again, these are some more quotes
from the developer list.
People are asking not
just for an XML object,
but they're asking, oh, well, you know,
I want XPath, and I want XQuery and XSLT,
and I want it to fix my malformed XML,
and also I'd really love if it
could do transformations and
all sorts of magical things.
So that's what I'm
going to give you today.
We're going to introduce... And SXML.
So what is NSXML?
Well,
it's a set of five classes in Foundation.
You can produce XML from scratch.
You can read in an XML document.
Or you can start from HTML,
convert it into XML,
find all your leaf nodes, convert it,
pull things out,
put other things back in.
And then just in one line of code,
you can apply XQuery,
which is a new W3 standard, or XSLT.
This is all you need to know.
If you know a little bit of Cocoa--
because I'm going to be showing you
quite a bit of code later on-- and if in
Safari you can go view source and say,
hey, you know,
this is the text element I'm looking for,
this is the attribute I'm looking for,
then you should be good to go.
If you're starting from scratch,
also you just should know something
about the DTD or the schema
so you can build valid XML.
So XML, it's everywhere, right?
Everywhere you look.
So you have XML, it's just straight XML.
If you go to the w3.org website,
you'll see there's all
these different standards.
And you can go all over the web and
find there's information everywhere.
And we want you to use it.
Then on top of that,
you have the file formats.
So Keynote actually
stores its data as XML.
It's not even exported.
It's actually already XML.
And Illustrator,
you can export as SVG and Final Cut Pro,
which we're going to be showing later on.
Then you have PLists and also Services.
So scraping.
I know you all do it.
And I'm trying to put a stop to that.
As I mentioned,
you can do this custom parsing,
which is not that great.
But otherwise,
you're left scraping these strings out.
And you're trying to create this XML,
but you know you're going to
end up forgetting an end tag,
or you're going to do
something a little bit wrong.
And then somebody else
wants to use your XML,
and it's malformed.
So please, stop.
Use this instead.
This is NSXML.
So at the top level, we have NSXML node,
which everything inherits from.
So it covers just your
basic things-- attribute,
namespace, processing instruction,
and text.
And these things may
or may not have a name,
and they'll have an object value
and say where they are in the tree.
Then you have NSXML document,
which holds everything.
And it will also have a version
and a character encoding.
Then there's NSXML element,
where you have your list of
attributes and your list of
namespaces-- very important.
And for those of you that are into DTDs,
we have NSXML DTD,
where you have your system and public ID.
And it stores a whole bunch of DTD nodes.
So they'll tell you what
can be valid or not.
So before I talk more about this,
let's show you some code.
So it's really easy.
You just have your URL.
And then there's three different ways
you can start creating your document.
You can either init with contents of URL,
init with data, or if you've created a
root element from scratch,
just use that.
So I'm going to show how easy
it is by walking all the way
over to this demo machine.
So here I have basically the same
lines of code I was just showing.
And what I'm doing is I'm
getting this from apple.com/rss.
So as you may know,
RSS is this really big thing.
We just announced Safari RSS.
And there's all this information
out there available to you.
So normally, now that Safari RSS is here,
if we click on this,
we get this cool view.
But we just want the data.
So I've saved this URL,
and this is it here.
And then I just allocate it,
and I'm turning on Pretty Printing,
which is a special option to
make all the indenting go in.
And then there's also a root
element on the document.
So I'm going to go
straight into the debugger.
And let's see if I can-- make
sure you can see this all right.
All right,
so let's say I want to print out--
I said it has a character encoding,
right?
[Transcript missing]
Child count, and of course,
there's all the things you'd expect,
like child.index and replace child.index.
All right, let's go back to slides.
So instead of doing this, please,
NSXML is for Cocoa lovers.
Use this.
Be happy.
Instead of doing this
custom parser with SACS,
we want you to use these
first-class objects.
Instead of doing all this scraping,
just use the methods that we have.
Instead of being difficult, it's easy.
And instead of it being
error-prone and malformed,
hey, we'll even fix it up for you.
So this is, you know,
instead of Apple starting from scratch,
obviously we're going to use these great
libraries that are already out there.
So already,
LibXML2 was in the system for Panther.
Well, now we have LibXSLT and Tidy.
Then on top of that,
we have all of our standards.
So if you go to the W3 home page
and look at their specifications,
well, we've tried to adhere
to that pretty well.
And as I mentioned, we've got this whole
XQuery engine in there,
which I'm going to show
you some XQuery later on,
because I think it's a really
powerful language for processing XML.
And previously, if you've developed
any Sherlock channels,
that's what we were using it in.
We were using XQuery and
JavaScript for channels.
And last year, we had a Sherlock session.
Everyone's like, hey, why can't I use
XQuery outside of Sherlock?
Well, here you go.
And then NSXML encompasses all of that.
So we're going to go
into a pretty long demo.
But before we get there,
this is sort of what I think is what
you're regularly going to do with NSXML.
Is you have some data out there.
You find it.
You're pulling a little bit out of it.
And then you have some sort of template.
And you're pushing in that new data.
Now I'd like to invite
Helena Ju up to the stage.
Helena works on Final Cut,
which can now import and export
XML with Final Cut Pro HD.
We're not ready for the demo machine yet.
If we could go back to slides.
Thank you very much.
OK.
Let's just say what our problem is.
Well, it's a typical problem.
You've got some sort of person,
an artist that's done a
really great template.
And then you have this database,
or you have all this
information somewhere,
and you want to put it in.
So typical sort of separation
of content and display.
So in particular,
I already showed you the
iTunes Music Store RSS.
And we're going to use
that again for this demo.
So we want to have some sort of
template where it has the song name,
artist name, the rank.
And we're going to add
in some new information,
which is the rank change.
So it's always bugged
me that I can check out,
well, what are the top 10 songs?
But are they new today,
or did they change from yesterday?
Is number one going down,
or is it going up?
So we're going to add that in.
So go to the RSS.
And then this is what we want to make,
is put this information
into the template.
So now we'll go to the demo machine.
And one way we could do this is
just make some simple XML and
apply a style sheet to it.
And Safari can actually deal with that.
So you have this processing
instruction that says,
this is my style sheet.
And you don't even need
to bother writing HTML,
and it can look great.
And we've made this demo for
you that will be available at
approximately 6:30 this evening.
So you can try this out yourselves.
And we're just going to modify it
a bit to make it better for stage.
So we're just going
to build and run this.
And here we go.
So this is XML with a style sheet.
It's not HTML.
So let's just check out, view the source.
Right?
So we're going to do something
really similar to this.
But the web,
it's good to a certain point.
Can we go back to the slides now?
But really,
we want to do something more exciting.
We want to make a video.
So we're going to do something
in Final Cut Pro instead.
So I just want to give you a summary
of the algorithm we're going to use
so you don't get lost along the way.
So this is what the RSS looks like.
I briefly showed it.
No, I'm just showing it to you
now for the first time.
So we have a whole bunch of items.
And there's this namespace, ITMS.
So instead of just being a straight,
regular RSS,
we've added in this namespace.
And it contains a whole bunch
of information attached to it.
We have the artist name, the album,
the link.
And we're going to be using the link
as our unique ID to compare between
the two different versions of the XML.
Then we're going to use XQuery and
extract out the information we want and,
at the same time,
make the XML a lot simpler to understand.
So this is at the point that
I left the XML for the sample
code that you'll be looking at.
So this is sort of as far as you go.
And then you apply the and you're done.
But here we're going to go a bit further,
where we're actually going to
go into Final Cut Pro and export
some XML from a template and then
pull all those things together.
So our data source.
As I mentioned, XML is everywhere.
There's lots of places to find it.
I really encourage you to--
If you find one data source,
to keep looking,
because the coolest applications of
this are really when you can bring
together lots of different sources.
So instead of stopping
at showing the top 10,
well, maybe I should go look up
information on the artist,
or find related tracks
and also display that.
We've already found the data source,
so we're not going to bother showing
you that on the demo machine.
Next,
we are going to extract the information.
So here, we're going to use XQuery.
And of course, to use XQuery,
we need to know a
little bit about XQuery.
So XQuery, at its basic,
is it incorporates XPath.
And XPath is quite straightforward.
So if you're in your shell and you
can move up and down directories,
you can do basic XPath.
Dot is your context item,
just like it is in your
directory structure.
And if you want to go
dot slash with a name,
well,
that goes one element down the tree.
So say I went dot slash a,
that would give me all my links.
If I went dot slash slash a,
that would give me every
single link in the tree,
instead of just the
children names that match.
And dot dot goes up.
So that's really straightforward.
But then we can add these predicates in,
which makes it much more powerful.
Because inside a predicate,
you can have any XPath or
XQuery function you want.
And there's really a lot of them,
which I'll show you in a minute or two.
So you can do string matching,
including regular expressions
based on the Perl-compatible
regular expression library.
And what else?
Match based on what
kind of element it is,
text or attribute.
So we'll go back to the demo machine
now and show how easy this can be.
So with our iTunes RSS, which here it is,
in Objective-C we could say, oh,
give me my first child, move down,
give me my next child,
walk through the tree, try to find this,
try to find all the items.
And the items are-- could
you just scroll down a bit?
Yeah.
So we have this whole series of items.
And if all you have is
items as your children,
well, that's fine.
But what if there's a comment in between?
Well, now suddenly you have to walk
through all of the children just
looking for the ones that are items.
So XQuery cuts out this whole stuff.
So if we go to the XQuery tab,
if we want to find all the items,
all we type is ./item.
And there they are.
And say we want all of the
song names on those items.
Well, that's itms:song.
Okay, there's all of our song names.
Say we want the song Links, well,
we just add on Link.
So it's really, it's that simple.
I mean, that's a lot easier probably
than whatever you've been doing.
So if we can go back to slides now.
Now, if we want to-- so as
mentioning all those functions,
here's some of them.
There's around 144 of them.
I really encourage you to use
xQuery when dealing with XML as
a more fully fledged language.
So if we want to do something
to each of those items,
then we need some sort of iterator,
right?
And in xQuery,
that's called the flower statement.
So it's really similar to an SQL.
You're a select,
order by-- I haven't used SQL in forever.
I like sQuery a lot.
So your flower statement here,
you have for, let, order by, where,
and return.
And a lot of xQuery, you'll see,
will just have a whole bunch
of for and let statements.
So for is your iterator,
and let is your assignment statement.
Then you order by and you
always need to have a return,
which is sometimes confusing
for new people to the language.
You can't go let, let and return.
You have to have the return.
If you have a really big XQuery file,
we also encourage you to
put it in a separate file,
which we'll be doing.
Whereas if you just
have a one-line XPath,
you should just write it
straight within the code.
Back to our demo.
So back in NSXML browser,
we just want to show a simple
flower statement before
we get into the code here.
So if we want to loop
over all of the items,
we want to say $4 item.
Dollar is the way of
denoting variables in XQuery.
And we're going to grab
each of the song names.
And also get the album title and
then concatenate them together and
just return that and then join the
whole sequence together with returns.
So if we run that.
So in XQuery, everything is a sequence.
Even if it's one item,
it's still a sequence of one.
And you can't nest sequences.
So in our return statement,
if we'd written a return
of a sequence there,
it would just end up
appending them all together.
It's just a little gotcha that
you want to watch out for.
So now we're going to go
straight into the code.
And go back to-- I talked about step one,
but we didn't show the code
because the code is so similar
to what I did in the first demo.
So here we are getting our
old RSS and our new RSS.
And these are sort of
pre-canned versions I saved.
I think one of them is from last
Friday and one is on Monday.
So that will be the two
lists that we're comparing.
And we go to step two.
Step two is where we're
actually applying the X query.
So here we're getting, as I mentioned,
we want to store it in a separate file
because our X query is quite large,
which we're going to go
through in another minute.
The NSBundle, we're just grabbing it.
And then the next thing you'll
notice is this constants dictionary.
So XQuery, as I mentioned,
since it's just a one-line function call,
it can only be really
applied to your current,
you know, that one object that
you're calling it on.
So we can say new RSS objects for XQuery,
but we need some way of getting
the old document in there.
So to do that,
we have this constants dictionary.
And this key is going to match
something that we declare in the XQuery.
So it's a way of just passing information
in between from Objective-C into XQuery.
And then the last line is our one line
that we do to actually apply the X query,
and we're going to get back
this big sequence of items.
So now, instead of looking at
the XQuery in Xcode,
which has no XQuery syntax coloring,
we're just going to look
at a canned RTF file.
Here it is.
So XQuery comments are these really cute,
smiley faces.
So you're always happy when
you're working on XQuery.
So this is what I was talking about,
this first line here.
This is where we're bringing
in that object that we
declared in our Objective-C.
So now we've got these two documents.
One is the context item, which is dot.
And then the other one is $olddoc.
Then we're going to loop through.
So this is just a really big version
of the small snippet of XQuery I showed
you just a couple minutes ago.
So we're getting a few more
attributes than we did before.
In addition to the song and song link,
we have the artist and album.
And you'll see here
where it goes slash text,
parentheses, that's matching a text node.
So you can also have slash attribute,
slash element.
So it's really easy to pick out.
We'll say I want all the comments.
I go slash, slash, comment.
Then we want to find how the old
list compares to the new list.
So there's that song link, remember,
which we can use as the unique ID.
So we're using this predicate statement,
which, based on the song link,
in that entire array of old items,
it's going to find just
the one that matches.
And of course,
there's the chance it doesn't
match if the song is brand new.
And we'll deal with that.
So then we have this little if statement,
you know, standard stuff.
And we're just building
up this string that says,
well,
did the song go up a notch or down two?
Is it brand new or is it unchanged?
Then the last thing we do,
if you can see that far.
Helena, do you want to just move
the whole thing up a bit,
the whole window?
So another great thing about XQuery is
instead of having to write in line,
you know, left, blah, blah, blah, blah,
right, and make sure you match
your start and end names,
is they have these constructors.
So this is an element constructor.
It's going to build an
element with some attributes.
And our attributes,
we're giving special names here,
because we're going to use these to match
the names that are in Final Cut Pro.
And here, also,
a neat thing about the Compute
Constructors is you can put
any variable you want in there.
I mean, it's not like hard-coded XML,
right?
So at the very end of this,
our loop is done.
We've created this list.
It's a list of items which
have these four attributes,
which contain information from the
original RSS plus the rank change.
And now, if we can go back to slides.
So now, Final Cut Pro,
we want to create our template.
So again, there's lots of different ways
of creating this template.
If you look at applications now,
they can do so much XML that it's crazy.
And when you go in Illustrator and
you've created this beautiful graphic,
and then you can export it as
SVG and programmatically turn
it into whatever you want.
And I'm really excited about that
because that's one of the annoying things
for me is you get into this program,
and instantly you want to do this.
You want to do something
really repetitive,
especially in Final Cut Pro.
And now you can just
export the whole thing,
use a little bit of NSXML and XQuery,
and import it back in,
and it's all done for you.
So this is a couple of things
we're going to be looking for in
our exported Final Cut Pro XML.
A generator item is going
to be our text elements,
and then the item will
be the actual text.
Let's go back to the demo machine.
Here we are in Final Cut Pro.
I know for most of you like me,
this was my first time using
Final Cut Pro for this presentation.
And it was really fun,
and it wasn't that difficult
to get something going.
And then once I had this
little snippet there,
well,
then I could manipulate it with my mad
Objective-C programming skills and build
this whole really cool presentation.
So here we have our template item,
and we've got these four text elements,
each on their own track.
So this is important to keep in mind,
because what we're going to do is
duplicate each of these along the track.
So we're moving forward in time,
and we're going to change this
to actually be a real countdown.
And underneath,
we have a little bit of audio and a
little bit of video to spice it up.
So we can just export this.
And Final Cut Pro, it actually exports
everything that you do in it.
You think, well, maybe I'm doing this
really cool transition,
and it's not going to be
able to describe it in XML.
But Helena and others have
done such an excellent job.
It's all there.
So we'll just take a look at what
the exported file looks like.
So we're giving it this name that we want
to remember when we're back in our code.
And we're just going to search
for one of those strings.
So if we scroll up a bit
until we hit a generator item.
So there's that generator item.
This is our generated piece of text.
And above that is track.
So that's the track that
the generated item is on.
So what we want to do is
take out this template item,
because we really don't want
something that says song name,
and change something inside it,
then push it back in multiple
times for each of the four things
on their four different tracks.
Now if we can go back to slides.
Okay, this is our last step.
I'm realizing now you'll
be out quite early.
So we're going to insert
our changed copies.
So we had the XML that
we created from XQuery,
and we have this XML that we've
exported from Final Cut Pro.
Then we're going to put it all together.
We're going to use some
of these NSXML functions.
So on the left-hand side,
you have all the sort of
attributes of your things.
And then on the right-hand side,
you have everything
dealing with children.
So I mean, as you can probably guess,
these things end up being KVO compliant.
So we'll go back to the demo now.
I forgot a step.
Step three.
Okay,
after we exported the Final Cut Pro XML,
and I showed you where that
generator item and the track are,
now we want to find those.
So we're importing the template,
then we have our array
with the four keys.
And remember, we named in Final Cut Pro,
we named our text with the same
names as the attribute names
that we export from XQuery.
So we're just going to loop
through each of those four things.
And we want to build one array
that's the generator items and
another array of the tracks,
because ultimately,
the generator items are going
to disappear from the original,
and we want to insert
things into the tracks.
And there's that little
bit of XPath there,
which I should explain.
So we want to find within that
big exported file just that
one particular generator item,
right?
And to do that,
we go look for all the generator items.
Then we have this predicate
where inside there,
we look for a text element that
matches based on the name of
wherever we are inside our array.
Then we add the generator object and also
its parent to text nodes and track nodes.
The last thing we do in
the loop is detach it,
which is obviously
another NSXML function,
which just takes something
right out of the tree,
basically setting its parent to nil
and deleting it from the parent.
Okay, step four.
This is the last step.
So you see length there.
This is so we can move ahead in time.
We're going around 30 frames a second.
We want each thing to
play for two seconds.
Then we get that first item.
So we've got these 10
items from the XCore,
remember?
So that's current.
Then we're looping through
our four special keys.
And the first thing we duplicate
is the actual generator item,
because that's the one we want
to insert our new text in.
Then we come up with
our replacement string,
which is the attribute with the same
name matching one of those keys.
And now we find just the text node.
So we do a little bit more XPath
just to find the text node.
Because remember,
we don't want to replace the
whole text of the generator item.
We just want to replace
the text where it belongs.
So we set the string value.
And then that dot slash
start and dot slash end,
those are our start and end times.
We want to make sure that we
actually move forward in time
and don't end up with our 10
clips all on top of each other.
Then we add our child and release it.
And we're done.
So, I mean,
that's really all there is to it.
So let's go back.
Let's run this.
So see at the very end there,
we just write it back to a file.
OK, and then we can go back into
Final Cut Pro and import this.
And it should have our 10 bits from the
RSS in Final Cut moving along in time.
So we can see we've added that
additional information of whether
it's unchanged or moved up and down.
So let's just switch to our pre-canned
rendered version of this and play
it back and see what it looks like.
The Expendables from Santa Cruz.
They're really nice.
They lent us this
footage and their music,
so we're not stepping on anyone's feet.
Now let's go back to slides.
So in addition to everything
I just showed you,
I just wanted to show you a
few more header highlights.
So in addition to exporting XML,
we also can export XHTML or HTML.
And at this point,
I will encourage you to
read the release notes,
because there's some things
that aren't quite finished.
And there's a couple known bugs
that we don't want you hitting upon,
but there's generally
workarounds that are known.
You can also set string
value resolving entities.
So this is something that I really like,
because it means in your DTD,
you can just say, hey,
this string should resolve
to this other string,
and then pass it in with the
entity and have it resolve for you,
so you don't have to parse through
your string and replace it later on.
I showed you objects for XQuery.
There's also object by applying XSLT,
which is another great
language slash technology.
It's sort of, in theory,
similar to XQuery, but I think XQuery is
a bit more powerful.
In XSLT,
you can also do some other things,
like you can export
RTF or you can export PDF,
depending on how you write your XSLT.
So that's why it's object by
applying XSLT instead of document,
because you can get either NSData back
or you can get an NSXML document.
Then there's also a
resolved namespace for name.
As I mentioned, we put a lot of work into
having the namespaces just work.
So when you add something,
it will actually go and find the
namespace that it's associated with,
which means you can say, hey,
what's the namespace for bar colon baz,
and it will say, oh, it's http bar.com.
Then we have fidelity,
which for those of you that are
using straight libXML2 right now,
is something I know you're not
getting because it was quite a
bit of work to get this in there.
So what I mean by fidelity
is just that your input,
you know, you probably want it to
look like your output.
So if you've got white space
in between your elements,
you might want to keep that.
If you use single quotes or
double quotes on your attributes,
you know, you might have some reason that
you want to keep those around.
So that's a big fix as entities.
So all of this stuff.
Also keep in mind, though,
that this will be a performance hit.
I've tested this.
If you turn on all of these options,
you'll get about a 50%
performance hit on parsing.
So just use the ones
that you really need.
Then, bindings.
So you briefly saw the
little NSXML application.
And since we have a minute,
I'm just going to show you
a little bit more of it.
If we could go to the demo machine.
So there's a whole tab here,
which I didn't show you,
which is where the whole KVO,
KVC comes in.
So we had our source here,
and there's this Editor tab.
And you can just move down the tree,
move up the tree, and edit things.
Here you can see that there's
some namespace and attributes.
And find information about the document.
And it really didn't take me
long to put this together.
It was an exercise in seeing
if our bindings worked.
And they do.
I mean, it's great.
It's basically-- you can build a
whole XML editor really quickly.
And it also wouldn't take much
effort if you guys went to
the What's New in Cocoa talk.
They said that there's
new bindings for trees.
You should be able to just put
an extra class in there that
steps to this and be able to do
an outline view editor in a day.
And let's go back to slides.
That's it.
I want to see what you can do.
We're giving you all of the stuff.
There's that option
NSXML document tidy HTML,
which takes your HTML and
converts it into valid XML.
You can also tidy up XML.
And as you may have guessed,
we're using the actual HTML tidy library,
if you've heard of it.
It's also available on BBEdit.
There's our five classes, NSXML document,
node, element, DTD, and DTD node.
And one of the first XQuery engines,
as I mentioned,
XQuery is now... Its final
call happened in February,
so it's really getting to
be a stabilized language.
We don't expect major things
happening like they have
been the past couple years.
Please, file bugs.
I know of a bunch,
but you're probably going
to find a bunch more.
So I can't find out about
them unless you file them.
So get on your bug reporter,
file them in.
Also, enhancements.
We know that we haven't covered
everything that you're interested in.
I'm especially interested in
hearing what people want more
from the DTD stuff and validation.
Matthew Formica is our Cocoa evangelist.
He should be your first
sort of email contact.
And then there's John Galenzi,
who you probably met at the HHI talk.
We have a bunch of great
documentation that Terry put together,
who you'll see in Q&A.
In addition to the regular
Foundation web page,
where you'll see the new classes,
there's also this whole prose-based, hey,
what's NSXML?
And it goes into how
XML browser was put together,
how the bindings go together,
little code snippets.
We have a bunch of great
documentation that Terry put together,
who you'll see in Q&A.
In addition to the regular
Foundation web page,
where you'll see the new classes,
there's also this whole prose-based, hey,
what's NSXML?
And it goes into how
XML browser was put together,
how the bindings go together,
little code snippets.
I'd like to thank you very much.